Left behind were the remaining telescopes, the Observatory's main building and
the 15th-century castle of Herstmonceux, all of which appeared doomed to decay
or conversion to timeshare property development. To Patrick Moore, who spent
most of the 1950s and 1960s at Herstmonceux mapping the Moon's surface, this
remains an act of scientific vandalism.

To fund the serious side of Herstmonceux customers must be attracted to the
entertainments

"It was a crack-brained idea to break up that team and to abandon the
telescopes," he exclaimed angrily. "They're still useful even today. There's a
desperate shortage of large telescopes for testing new astronomical equipment
and for training young astronomers, and they remain valuable for observing very
small bodies like asteroids and cosmic debris on the edge of the universe."

The chance to save Herstmonceux occurred after a property developer, who had
bought the estate for timeshare development, went bankrupt. The castle and the
park were acquired for Queen's University in Ontario, enabling Gregory and
Steve Pizzey to buy the Observatory building with its garden full of
telescopes. Even with generous financial help from the local authorities, they
were taking on an enormous task - over £150,000 has been spent on setting up
the centre and making a start on the refurbishment of the telescopes, but to
restore them to working order will cost close to £1 million.

"It could finish us" Pizzey admitted. "It's bigger than anything we have dealt
with before, but we have so many skills and such experience in this area that
I'm sure it will succeed."

To fund the serious side of Herstmonceux, therefore, customers must be
attracted to the entertainments. It was this that made the Fabricators' Week
with its display of potential new attractions so significant. It was clear that
the spinning top had potential if it could be made more surprising.

"What about this?" Prof Berry suggested. "I'll show you how to cut it down."

Drawing a Swiss army knife from his pocket, he sliced through the air beneath
the top, and with the magnetic force interrupted, the top dropped to the
ground.

That's the sort of cortickling thing you learn at science centres - a Swiss
Army knife not only has a tool for removing stones from horses' hooves but one
for destroying adiabatic traps.
